---
title: Getting Started
pageTitle: Scalable Workflow Engine for Distributed Services
description: Welcome to Infinitic's official documentation - your comprehensive guide to mastering our scalable workflow engine for distributed services. Dive into detailed tutorials, explore in-depth concepts, and discover practical examples to leverage Infinitic effectively in your Java or Kotlin projects. Whether you're orchestrating microservices, managing data pipelines, or implementing complex business processes, our documentation provides the tools and insights you need for success. Start enhancing your distributed systems with Infinitic's robust, scalable, and resilient framework today.
---
Infinitic accelerates the implementation of event-driven architectures, reducing development time from months to weeks. {% .lead %}

Infinitic is ideal for backend teams developing applications that are time-dependant, dynamic or including human interactions, such as:

* E-commerce platforms with dynamic inventory management and complex delivery and invoicing processes
* Financial systems handling multi-step transactions with built-in error recovery, or even manual approval for large transfers
* Supply chain management systems coordinating time-critical logistics across multiple parties
* Customer support platforms with escalation processes that evolve based on issue complexity and involve human agents for complex cases
* Subscription-based services managing recurring billing cycles with retry mechanisms and manual review for payment disputes
* Travel booking systems orchestrating flight, hotel, and car reservations with fallback options
* Content management systems with multi-stage approval workflows, scheduled publishing, and editorial review processes

Building with Infinitic requires only two key components:
- A **database** for storing current workflow states using a simple key-value table (currently supporting Redis, Postgres, and MySQL, with easy expansion to other databases).
- A **message broker** to securely store and distribute messages generated by Infinitic to workers (currently supporting [Apache Pulsar](https://pulsar.apache.org/)).

Don't worry about mastering these external dependencies - Infinitic handles everything for you. If you're new to these technologies, [managed instances](/docs/references/pulsar#using-infinitic-with-third-party-providers) are an excellent solution. 

Yourself only need to focus on writing your application-specific code:
   - **Workflow Workers** orchestrate the execution of your Services. You simply code their description using Service interfaces.
   - **Service Workers** execute your Services. You implement the actual Service logic or API calls, while Infinitic handles all Pulsar-related operations.

Those workers built with the Infinitic SDK - consume messages, process them, and produce responses. The Infinitic SDK provides extensive functionalities that you do not have to code and maintain:
- Implementation of events consumers and producers
- Management of topics: topology, schemas, and creation 
- Error handling in case of failures
- Data serialization
- API for building workflows


At last, if you already have an existing infrastructure, Infinitic doesn't require you to replace it. Instead, it can seamlessly integrate with your current setup, allowing you to develop new features and enhance your system's capabilities without disrupting your existing architecture.


{% callout type="note" title="Infinitic is currently available for Java and Kotlin." %}

*Click the {% code-icon type="java" /%} button in the top navigation bar to select your preferred programming language for this documentation*.

Infinitic can support additional programming languages. [Contact us](/docs/community/contact) if you're interested in other language support.

{% /callout  %}

Key benefits of using Infinitic:

* **Flexibility**: Harness the full power of programming languages with loops, conditions, and data manipulation to define durable processes.
* **Easy Maintenance**: Workflows are easy to understand, consolidated in a single class, and version-controlled like standard code.
* **Enhanced Observability**: Comprehensive monitoring with detailed insights available on dashboards.
* **Unmatched Reliability**: Workflows remain resilient to service or worker failures, ensuring consistent operation.
* **High Scalability**: Infinitic's core event-driven architecture guarantees exceptional scalability.

{% quick-links %}

{% quick-link title="Terminology" icon="installation" href="/docs/components/terminology" description="Understand the key components of Infinitic: Services, Tasks, Workflows, Workers, and Clients." /%}

{% quick-link title="Under The Hood" icon="presets" href="/docs/introduction/event-driven-workflows" description="Discover how Infinitic workflows are fully event-driven, horizontally scalable, and resilient to errors." /%}

{% quick-link title="Workflow Examples" icon="plugins" href="/docs/introduction/examples" description="Explore workflow examples that demonstrate Infinitic's power and ease of use in building complex business processes." /%}

{% quick-link title="Hello World" icon="theming" href="/docs/introduction/hello-world" description="Follow our step-by-step guide to build your first Infinitic workflow." /%}

{% /quick-links %}
